Exercise 5
================
Oleg Kartavtsev
5/31/2022

### What is complex contagion and how it’s different from simple contagion?

Contagion in the context of social networks (whether it’s within the
organization or in an informal setting) is the event during which a
certain idea, view, or a behavior, coming from the original source is
passed onto everyone in the network. In the case of simple contagion, it
does not matter how far away any of the nodes are from the culprit or
how many other nodes they are connected to. In a simple contagion,
everyone gets “infected” if they are connected (either directly or
through other nodes) to the source.

Complex contagion has one major difference from a simple contagion. In a
complex contagion, the relative percentage of the influenced people is
considered. This means that the person that is being influenced by a
certain idea will not accept it unless it is already accepted by a
pre-defined threshold, or a certain percentage of people in their
network.

### What does complex contagion mean for diffusion of behaviors in organization?

An important aspect of the complex contagions (and a difference from a
simple contagion) is that it is possible to prevent the spread of a
certain idea by increasing the number of edges between all nodes in the
network. If most of the nodes are interconnected, then it would become
quite hard for the source of the negative behavior to spread since it
simply won’t be able to pass the required threshold. In the context of
the organizations, it means that it’s possible to prevent certain
negative workplace behaviors and promote positive behaviors by designing
connections within groups (managing bonding social capital) and between
them (bridging social capital.)

### How can we use the threshold models to better manage: 1) Prosocial behavior in organizations, 2) Learning, 3) Toxic or unproductive behaviors?

If the organization can balance out the number of connections within and
between groups, then it would result in the small world network, which
is the optimal mix that fosters creativity and prevents groupthink from
happening. Given that, in a real-life scenario, behaviors within the
organization will most likely present cases of complex contagion,
different threshold models can be used to either foster or stop the
spread of various behaviors.

If the organization has a source of prosocial behavior that it wants to
spread around its employees, it would be advisable to connect that
source to the people in their own department and ensure that the
positive behavior is achieved before trying to spread it onto the rest
of the organization by creating multiple connections with several nodes
between the departments/groups. The key here is to not overdo it and
first make sure that the positive behavior is achieved before attempting
to spread it further.

In case of learning, it might be possible to get an effective result by
connecting knowledgeable and most skilled employees with as many
powerful nodes as possible.

Finally, in case of negative behaviors, it would be wise to ensure that
all nodes are highly interconnected before the spread. This wouldn’t
allow the negative behavior to pass the threshold to affect the
neighboring nodes.
